Old nc docs (#7193)
SciTools/iris: docs/src/user_manual/explanation/netcdf_io.rst

    (70, 37, 49)

Split Attributes
-----------------

Since Iris does not provide a "dataset" object, it is not possible to represent netCDF
file-level, aka "global", attributes directly.  Instead, when saving to NetCDF,
the attributes of saved *cubes*, specifically, may be saved as either global
(i.e. file-level) or local (i.e. variable-specific) attributes.

This makes no difference to Iris behaviour, but it is relevant when saving cubes to

> netCDF files, as to how the decision is made which kingd of attribute to create.

Author: ```suggestion
netCDF files, as to how the decision is made which type of attribute to create.
```

**Prior to Iris v3.8** this was done automatically, using specific lists of known

> attribute names defined in the `CF Conventions <https://https://cfconventions.org/>`_
> as normally *only* appearing as local (variable) attributes
> (e.g. "valid_min") or *only* as global (file) ones (e.g. "history").

Author: ```suggestion
attribute names defined in the `CF Conventions <https://https://cfconventions.org/>`_:
those which normally may only appear as *local* (i.e. variable) attributes, like "valid_min"; 
or only as *global* (file) ones, like "history".
```

> For other names, the rule is _"global if the same for all cubes, otherwise local"_.

Author: ```suggestion
For other names, the rule is : *"global if the same for all cubes, otherwise local"*.
```

**Since Iris v3.8**, all cube attributes now have explicit 'global' or 'local' identity.
This is assigned automatically on creation using similar rules as described above, or
type-specifically when loading from NetCDF, or explicitly controlled by the user.
A ``cube.attributes``
is now a :class:`~iris.cube.CubeAttrsDict` object, which combines global and local
attributes within a single dictionary-like object.

On saving to NetCDF, finer-grained type-specific control of attribute saving is now
possible, but this requires setting the ``.save_split_attrs`` property of
:data:`iris.FUTURE` to ``True`` -- either permanently with :meth:`~iris.Future.set` or
within a code block with :meth:`~iris.Future.context`.

> Ideally, anyone who is saving cubes to netcdf files **should now set this** : a warning
> is raised if it is not set.

Author: ```suggestion
Ideally, anyone who is saving cubes to netcdf files **should now set this** : if it is
not set, then a deprecation warning is issued and the old behaviour is applied.
```
